you
so I just assured you that empirically
the likelihood will converge but
theoretically it can also be proved that
e/m algorithm would converge to a local
maximum so here's just the illustration
of what happened and a detailed
explanation this would require more more
knowledge about some of the inequalities
that we haven't really covered yet so
here what you see is on the X by
managing we have a theta value this is
the parameter that we left on the y axis
we see the likelihood function so this
curve is the original likely role of a
machine I saw this one and this is the
one that we hope to maximize and we hope
to find a theta value at this point to
maximize this but in the case of mixture
model we cannot easy to find the
analytical solution to the problem so we
have to resolve a numerical errors and
then EMI was in such a hours
it's a here climate that would mean you
start with some random gas let's say you
start from here that's your starting
point and then you try to improve this
by moving this to another point where
you can have a higher likelihood so
that's the idea here climbing and then
the e/m where wasn't the way we achieve
this is to do two things first we'll fix
a lower bound of likely hold function so
this is the lower bound you can see here
and once we fit the lower bound we can
then maximize the lower bound and of
course the reason why this works is
because the lower bound is much easier
to optimize so we know our current gas
is here and by maximizing the lower
bound we'll move this point to the top
to here right and we can then map to the
original likely function we find this
point
because it's a lower bound that we are
care I'm here to improve this gas right
because we improve our lower bound and
then the original I can hold a curve
which is above this lobe on
we're definitely be improved as well
right so we already know it's improving
the lower bound so we definitely improve
this original like old function which is
about this lower bound so in our example
the current gas is a parameter value
given by the current generation and then
the next gas is the relays major
parameter values from this illustration
you can see the next gas is always
better than the current gas unless it
has reached the maximum where the it
will be stuck there so the 2 would be
equal so the Estep is basically to
compute this lower bound and we don't
directly just computed this likelihood
function but we computed the blade in
the variable values and these are
basically a part of this lower bound
this helps determine the lower bound the
aim step on the other hand is to
maximize the lower bound it allows us to
move members to a new point and that's
why iam arizim is guaranteed it'll
converge to a local maximum now as you
can imagine when we have many local
Maxima we also have to repeat the EMF
with multiple times in order to figure
out which one is the actual global
maximum and this actually in in general
is a difficult problem in numerical
optimization so here for example how we
started from here then we gradually just
climb up to this top so that's not
optimal and we'd like to climb up all
the way to here so the only way to climb
up to this here is to start from
somewhere here or here right so in the
e/m algorithm we generally would have to
start from different points so I have
some other way to determine a a good
initial starting point to summarize in
this lecture we introduced the
eeehm algorithm this is a general
algorithm for computing maximum
likelihood estimator of all kinds of
mixture models so not just for our
simple next model
and so here climbing Alison so can only
convert you to a local maximum and then
will depend on initial points the
general idea is that we will have two
steps to improve the estimate of
premises in the East step we roughly are
augmenting our data by predicting values
of use for hidden variables that would
use to simplify the estimation in our
case this is the distribution that has
been used to generate the world in the N
step then we would exploit such
augmented data which would make it
easier to estimate the distribution to
improve the estimate of parameters here
improve is guaranteed in terms of the
likelihood function note that it's not
necessary that we will have a stable
converge the parameter values even
though the likelihood function is
ensured to increase there are some
properties that have to be satisfied in
order for the parameters also to convert
it to some unstable value now here
thought data augmentation is done
probabilistically that means we're not
going to just say exactly what's the
value of a hidden variable but we're
going to have a probability distribution
over the possible values of these hidden
variables so this causes a split of
counts of events probabilistically and
in our case we'll spread the word counts
between the two distributions